How to model REST webservices in SoapUI 
SoapUI Open Source works with RESTful web services on the base of their definitions: WADL or Swagger. You can explore the service definitions, create and execute individual test requests, and create functional test cases and test suites.

Start by creating a new project. Click REST Project on the toolbar or select File > New REST Project from the main menu. Enter the project WADL in the dialogue box. To select the WADL file from hard drive, click Import WADL:

REST testing: Creating a WADL-based project

In the dialog, you enter file name or URL of WADL definition of your RESTful web service.

If you do not have a WADL file to try, use the sample WADL definition file that comes with SoapUI: <your-user-folder>/SoapUI-Tutorials/WSDL-WADL/sample-service.wadl. 

If you use a Swagger web service, create an empty project and import Swagger specification:

REST testing: Adding Swagger definition

SoapUI Open Source supports Swagger definitions ver. 1.x and 2.0. The next generation tool – SoapUI Pro – introduces support for OpenAPI Specification ver. 3.0. It also supports REST discovery. That is, it can record requests and responses between your computer and the tested web service and get information on the service’s resources and methods from the recorded traffic. This eliminates the need for REST service specification at all.

SoapUI displays the web service specification in the Navigator panel on the left of the SoapUI window:

REST testing: Project in the Navigator panel

Here you can see items of the REST service project:

The project (Project1)
The REST service (My Sample IOT API)
Resource nodes (/connectors, /devices, /lighting/dimmers/{deviceId}/{value}, and so on)
Method definitions (getDevices, setDimmer)
A default request generated by SoapUI for a method (Request 1)
And so on.
To open the service editor, double-click the service node. The Overview tab shows basic data about the service:


